.TH BINSUID 1 "July 2026" "binsuid 1.2.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
binsuid \- automatic SUID, SGID, capabilities and sudo privilege escalation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B binsuid
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbinsuid\fR scans Linux systems for exploitable SUID and SGID binaries, dangerous
file and process capabilities, sudo misconfigurations (including SETENV rules),
writable PATH directories, cron persistence surfaces, and privileged group
membership. It ranks priority targets, then performs automatic privilege
escalation with built-in payloads. No manual command editing is required.
.PP
Intended for authorized penetration testing, CTF challenges, and security training.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-auto
Escalate the highest-priority vulnerable target automatically.
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Skip the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-quick
Limit filesystem enumeration to common binary directories.
.TP
.B \-\-scan-only
Scan and list vulnerable targets without offering escalation.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Print machine-readable JSON output. With \fB\-\-scan-only\fR, exit status is
.B 1
when auto-exploitable targets exist, otherwise
.BR 0 .
.TP
.B \-\-silent
Print a one-line summary only.
.TP
.B \-\-concise
Compact one-line-per-target listing.
.TP
.B \-\-show-all
Include low-interest system SUID binaries in listings.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable ANSI color output.
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Show escalation command without executing.
.TP
.B \-\-skip-suid
Skip SUID enumeration.
.TP
.B \-\-skip-sgid
Skip SGID enumeration.
.TP
.B \-\-skip-capabilities
Skip file capability enumeration.
.TP
.B \-\-scan-process-caps
Include process capability enumeration.
.TP
.B \-\-no-suspicious-paths
Skip extra suspicious paths (/opt, /tmp, /home) in quick mode.
.TP
.B \-\-skip-sudo
Skip sudo rule enumeration.
.TP
.B \-\-skip-path-audit
Skip writable PATH directory audit.
.TP
.B \-\-skip-persistence
Skip cron persistence audit.
.TP
.B \-\-skip-groups
Skip privileged group membership hints.
.TP
.B \-\-sudo-interactive
Run \fBsudo \-l\fR with password prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-upgrade
Download and install the latest release from GitHub (requires
.BR curl (1)
or
.BR wget (1)).
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version information.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success, or \fB\-\-json \-\-scan-only\fR with no auto-exploitable targets.
.TP
.B 1
No exploitable targets found, or \fB\-\-json \-\-scan-only\fR with auto-exploitable
targets present.
.SH EXAMPLES
Interactive escalation:
.PP
.RS
binsuid
.RE
.PP
Fully automatic:
.PP
.RS
binsuid \-\-auto \-y
.RE
.PP
Scripting (exit 1 when targets exist):
.PP
.RS
binsuid \-\-json \-\-scan-only \-\-quick
.RE
.PP
Quick scan without sudo/capabilities:
.PP
.RS
binsuid \-\-scan-only \-\-quick \-\-skip-sudo \-\-skip-capabilities
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I binsuid/data/gtfobins-api.json
Bundled GTFOBins API snapshot.
.SH AUTHOR
Cyberdark Security
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gtfobins (7),
.BR sudo (8),
.BR getcap (8)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Cyberdark Security.
License GPL-3.0-or-later.
